=head1 NAME

Veusz - a scientific plotting and graphing application.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

veusz [I<options>] [F<document.vsz>]...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Veusz> is a scientific plotting and graphing package. It is designed
to create publication-ready output in a variety of different output
formats. Graphs are built-up combining plotting widgets. Veusz has a
GUI user interface (started with the C<veusz> command), a Python
module interface and a scripting interface.

If started without command line arguments, B<Veusz> will open up with
a new empty document. The program will otherwise open the listed
documents.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 8

=item B<--unsafe-mode>

Do not check opened scripts for the presence of unsafe Python
commands. This allows you to create or open complete Python scripts
with Veusz commands if they come from a trusted source.

=item B<--listen>

Read Veusz commands from stdin, executing them, then writing the
results to stdout. This option replaces the old veusz_listen.

In this mode Veusz does not read any input documents, but will use the
first argument to the program as the window title, if given.

=item B<--quiet>

If in listening mode, do not open a window before running commands,
but execute them quietly.

=item B<--export>=I<FILE>

Export the next Veusz document file on the command line to the
graphics file I<FILE>. Supported file types include EPS, PDF, SVG,
PNG, BMP, JPG and XPM. The extension of the output file is used to
determine the output file format. There should be as many export
options specified as input Veusz documents on the command line.

=item B<--export-option>=I<OPT>

Adds the option given when exporting. Supported options are dpi=I<DPI>
giving the resolution for bitmap output files (default 100),
color=True/False to switch to monochrome output (default True),
page=[I<X>,...] gives a list of pages to export (default [0]), where
the page numbers are numbered from 0, antialias=True/False enables or
disables antialiasing in bitmap output files (default True),
quality=I<VAL> gives the JPEG quality value (default 85),
backcolor='I<#RRGGBBAA>' gives the background color of bitmap files
(default '#ffffff00'), pdfdpi=I<DPI> gives the DPI when outputing to
PDF files (default 150) and svgtextastext=True/False outputs text in
SVG files as text, rather than as curves (default False).

=item B<--plugin>=I<FILE>

Loads the Veusz plugin I<FILE> when starting Veusz. This option
provides a per-session alternative to adding the plugin in the
preferences dialog box.

=item B<--help>

Displays the options to the program and exits.

=item B<--version>

Displays information about the currently installed version and exits.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Please report bugs at https://github.com/veusz/veusz/issues

=head1 AUTHORS

B<Veusz> was written by Jeremy Sanders <jeremy@jeremysanders.net>.

This manual page was written by Jeremy Sanders <jeremy@jeremysanders.net>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2003-2020 Jeremy Sanders <jeremy@jeremysanders.net>.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option) any
later version.

On Debian GNU/Linux systems, the complete text of the GNU General
Public License can be found in `/usr/share/common-licenses/GPL'.

=cut
